---
title: "Integrated spacecraft autonomous attitude control testbed"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2024-06-06-isaac-1
excerpt: 'This paper addresses open-source spacecraft control.'
date: 2024-06-06
venue: 'SPIE'
---

## Abstract

ISAAC is a 3D-printed pneumatic spacecraft for attitude control system development in a 3-axis gimbal ring. This allows for simulated free-space movement of a cold gas thruster-controlled probe in a controlled test environment. The purpose of this open-sourced control platform is to allow students, professors, and researchers to test their control algorithms on real hardware in real-time. The end goal is to have a website allowing anyone to upload their code and watch it run via live stream. The spacecraft uses a pneumatic system to mimic cold gas thrusters by using compressed air as a means of propulsion. The delivery system uses solenoids to control the thrust, stabilizing the craft. The hardware is simple and consists of custom Arduino Printed Circuit Boards (PCB), a Raspberry Pi, an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) for total orientation data, and 2 LiPo batteries. The craft is entirely 3D printed, including the mounts for the components, to be accessible for future research and upgrades. The attitude controller will be integrated into the website easycontrols.org, which will allow anyone interested, both students and researchers alike, to upload their Python control algorithm and watch it run on hardware in real-time. The website will have built-in functions and examples, allowing the user to create their algorithm easily. A proof of concept of this system has been the application of a sliding mode controller in one axis of the gimbal rings. Future work can include the application of more modern control methods for students and facilities to display and follow.

## Links

- [SPIE Publication](https://www.spiedigitallibrary.org/conference-proceedings-of-spie/13058/130580T/Integrated-spacecraft-autonomous-attitude-control-testbed/10.1117/12.3013739.short)
- [Project Page](http://eppl.us/projects/project-6/)